readme.md, before:

## JavaScript Graham's Scan Convex Hull Algorithm

I required a simple implementation to calculate a convex hull from a given array of x, y coordinates,
the convex hull's in js I found either were a little buggy, or required dependencies on other libraries.
This implementation just takes the x,y coordinates, no other libraries are needed.

The four examples show how to utilise with Google Maps.

View live examples:

https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example1.html
https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example2.html
https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example3.html
https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example4.html

View GitHub pages http://brian3kb.github.io/graham_scan_js

### Testing

The source is tested with qUnit, tests executed with Google's JS Test Driver.

### Deploying

Include the source or the minified js and off you go.


### Usage

    //Create a new instance.
    var convexHull = new ConvexHullGrahamScan();

    //add points (needs to be done for each point, a foreach loop on the input array can be used.)
    convexHull.addPoint(x, y);

    //getHull() returns the array of points that make up the convex hull.
    var hullPoints = convexHull.getHull();


### Sources used to create

http://www.personal.kent.edu/~rmuhamma/Compgeometry/MyCG/ConvexHull/GrahamScan/grahamScan.htm
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graham_scan

### License

MIT License

Commit message:

Added Grunt build task using Uglify, NPM package file. Cleaned up readme. Added support for NodeJS and AMD.

readme.md, after:

## JavaScript Graham's Scan Convex Hull Algorithm

I required a simple implementation to calculate a convex hull from a given array of x, y coordinates,
the convex hull's in js I found either were a little buggy, or required dependencies on other libraries.
This implementation just takes the x,y coordinates, no other libraries are needed.

These four examples show how to utilise with Google Maps:

[Example 1](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example1.html)
[Example 2](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example2.html)
[Example 3](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example3.html)
[Example 4](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/26246816/graham_scan/example/gmaps_example4.html)

View [GitHub pages](http://brian3kb.github.io/graham_scan_js)

### Building

This produces `graham_scan.min.js`:

	npm install
	grunt build

### Testing

The source is tested with qUnit, tests executed with Google's JS Test Driver.

### Usage

    //Create a new instance.
    var convexHull = new ConvexHullGrahamScan();

    //add points (needs to be done for each point, a foreach loop on the input array can be used.)
    convexHull.addPoint(x, y);

    //getHull() returns the array of points that make up the convex hull.
    var hullPoints = convexHull.getHull();
    
### Algorithm

	GRAHAM_SCAN(Q)
	    Find p0 in Q with minimum y-coordinate (and minimum x-coordinate if there are ties).
	    Sort the remaining points of Q (that is, Q − {p0}) by polar angle in counterclockwise order with respect to p0.
	    TOP [S] = 0                ▷ Lines 3-6 initialize the stack to contain, from bottom to top, first three points.
	    PUSH (p0, S)
	    PUSH (p1, S)
	    PUSH (p2, S)
	    for i = 3 to m             ▷ Perform test for each point p3, ..., pm.
	        do while the angle between NEXT_TO_TOP[S], TOP[S], and pi makes a non-left turn  ▷ remove if not a vertex
	            do POP(S)
	            PUSH (S, pi)
	    return S

### References

* http://www.personal.kent.edu/~rmuhamma/Compgeometry/MyCG/ConvexHull/GrahamScan/grahamScan.htm
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graham_scan

### License

MIT License
